Emily hi you can see can't you our house
is a little different from the others on
the street that's because well we're a
little different I'm Mike berry and I'm
deaf just like everybody else in my
family welcome to our house and welcome
to our world this is our mum she's
tidying up after all of us again hello
I'm Caroline my sign name is this
because I have rosy cheeks in Deaf
culture most people have a special sign
that refers to an aspect of their
personality my name means big smile
here's my sister she's texting as usual
I don't always text I'm Kylie I'm 18 I
was flatting before now I've moved back
here I'm saving money and then I'll go
to Auckland her sign name refers to the
way she used to suck her fingers when
she was little
if you're inside wondering where my dad
is
he'll definitely be outside for a bit of
quiet with his lovebirds dead hi my name
is Peter my nickname or sign name is
Popeye and that's when I was younger I
used to ask questions and I eyes used to
pop out of my head
my hobby is the love birds I like to
breed them and I've been doing that for
just over ten years now I'm interested
in crossing the colors yeah it's a good
time out if the kids have been arguing
come out and have a break now I'm going
to introduce you to my younger sister
Rachel she really loves music more than
the rest of us and the reason for that
is her hearing is much better than the
rest of the family and she can hear more
hi my name is Rachel my sign name is
Rachel because when I was little I used
to have curly hair
I'm Anna penny I have more hearing and
positive this is my family member honey
just also our family dog every day
the older three children went to band a
school for the deaf but Mark wants to
find his place in the hearing world I am
a deaf person I've had that upbringing
of being in Deaf culture so I have to
learn the majority culture which is
hearing society if I make mistakes along
the way
that's fine it's never too late to learn
Rachel winter even scigirls hi sometimes
when I'm in hearing word I feel like
signing and when I have to do a chest go
I have to talk sometimes don't feel
comfortable but yeah and the DIF will I
can do both deaf people I'm just wow you
can speak
yeah what feels really different as diff
and we'll say if they don't like you so
you know we stand but with hearing
people and sometimes not sure have they
understood me
if TIFF people are talking with one
another if you're uncertain you'd say
what are you talking about personally I
think I think um do people more funner
nothing Rachel works as an interpreter
for her family they can't talk which one
they want so they asked me to come along
or like just speak to them tell them
what they want and yeah it's a lot
easier for them and six out of ten cases
deafness is genetic Carolyn and Peter
were both born to hearing parents it's a
way sure if their children will be deaf
no it didn't matter at all our aim was
to have healthy children deaf hearing
disabled we were going to accept them
this is Bunnings where I'm working the
Sophie Union next year I enjoy working
here it's helped me gain in confidence
learning how to lip read I'm independent
making friends my own age
I like it it's good fun staff here make
Marc feel welcome as bosses even learn
basic sign language I'm good thanks but
um I've just been choked but you're
buddies - okay
great work can you please go and get a
wave and bring it here and pull down all
the product to fill out the shelves the
biggest effort has been made by Marc
because it must have been pretty scary
for him to come and work with a whole
lot of hearing people we did a night
where we all wore earplugs for the
evening just try and get an idea of what
it was like to be deaf and I found that
the biggest challenge that I faced being
deaf that for that night was to not know
if people were talking to me or to feel
like I was left out so after
experiencing that we've made a very
concerted effort to make sure that he's
included in everything
3-play the only hurdle that I can see is
people's attitude he has a fabulous
attitude when he's working and wanting
to communicate and wanting to help
people
it's just the hearing people how do they
how much patience do they have when I
meet a customer that doesn't want to use
pen and paper to communicate
I find that disappointing and because I
know that I can help but their attitude
stops there they think I can't help and
we'll ask another staff member for
assistance instead opt to be um probably
on you two later
Marc spent a year in America he went to
high school there and says people were
supportive sheepish
while I was in America I learned that
hearing people in the US have a more
advanced attitude and this was three
years of lobbying by deaf people deaf
people aren't stupid